- Before we take a closer look at calling APIs in Java,
let's talk a bit about who the course is for
and what you should know ahead of time.
Senior Java developers are expected
to provide advanced solutions
that go beyond writing simple logic or working with objects.
These solutions often require systems to
exchange information,
which is commonly done through an API these days.
APIs are one of the best ways to pass data
or share capabilities between systems
so it's a skill that advanced Java developers must have.
So if you're a beginning Java developer
who knows the basics,
this course will teach you how to call APIs
which will prepare you for the integration problems
that you're going to face as you advance in your career.
Also, if you're just interested in what's possible
with an API, this course can also benefit you.
There are a couple technologies and concepts
that kind of layer on top of each other
throughout the course.
I can unpack most of that information
but you're going to get the most from this course
if you have a little background in a couple of areas.
The only things you must know to get
through the course is how to work with an IDE
and some basic Java.
I'll be using Eclipse but you can use any IDE
of your choice.
If you've never worked with Java
or you want to understand the basics,
there's better courses in the LinkedIn learning platform
for that.
Go check those out, then come back and watch this course.
There are some technologies in the background
that will help us throughout the course.
But you don't have to know those upfront.
There are bits of Maven, Spring, Jackson
and Project Reactor sprinkled throughout the course
but nothing that you must know ahead of time.
Also, if you know a little bit about HTTP
it'll go a long way in this course.
The course does require you to sign up for a few accounts,
all of which are free or free with a trial.
So you'll need to register for Azure, Twitter
and a Twilio account.
The Azure account will require a credit card
but they're really good about not billing you
past the trial.
These accounts will come with some credentials.
So it's important you store them securely.
But for the demo purposes, I'm going to store them
in an environment variable on my workstation.
So make sure you know how to create that for your system
and whatever operating system you're using.
Throughout the course, we'll be using these credentials
and other information that's associated with the account,
so make sure that you use your information and not mine.
So for example, we'll be making calls to Twilio
and there's a phone number associated with the account.
The examples will not work
if you use my Twilio phone number.
That's all there is to know.
I can guide you through the rest of the materials from here.
Let's go ahead and get started.